## Chamber Saddle Jacket (CSJ) Considerations

As a result of combustion temperatures the chamber will undergo thermal expansion in both length (relatively marginal) and diameter (radially). As coolant (ethanol) is at room temp, 6061-T6 (jacket material) will not meaningfuly contract compared to initial size. The primary concern is the potential of plastic deformation and dynamic load stress on the jacket as a result of the chamber's thermal expansion transferred through the milled/slotted ribs on the chamber outer body. Conservatively, the degree of thermal expansion of the inner wall can be correlated directly with the rate of thermal expansion of the ribs. Using the formula from Fig 3 we can determine the change (increase) in diameter with our initial diameter at room temp, the coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE) and the change in temperature. For Frostfire, the outer diameter of the chamber (ribs included) will increase due to thermal expansion by approximately 0.25mm. The jacket will be machined for a relatively loose slide fit (0.3mm) between the inner jacket wall and outer chamber ribs. While axial thermal expansion may be a cause for concern, a few mm of axial wiggle will be provided to the chamber so any thermal expansion will not cause structural or disassembly concerns. However, roughly a 1mm maximum axial expansion may be expected considering 6061-T6 properties and Frostfire sizing specs.

## Slotted Pintles and Shear vs Impingement Mixing
*Credit for slotted pintle insights to HalfCatRocketry*

In an impinging injector the fuel and oxidizer streams are injected at precise angles for optimal collision directly in free space which causes a violent breakup of droplets and subsequent mixing. Some types of impinging include the doublet, triplet, and pentad. Meanwhile in a shear mixing injector (eg. coaxial swirl, shear coaxial, and pintles) fuel and oxidizer are injected parallel (coaxially) with the difference in velocity determining the efficiency of the formed "shear layer" which nominally causes turbulence and mixes at the interface. At the amateur scale, some recent projects in dev (as of the writing of this document) may point towards better mixing with pintles and other shear injectors provided the appropriate velocity differential between the oxidizer and fuel. As the fuel passes the big jets of oxidizer, it should be sheared off and carried away resulting in potentially better mixing than impingement. Additionally the mixture stream (which would be more "fuel-rich" near the wall if utilizing a fuel centered pintle - fuel axially through annulus and oxidizer radially through pintle shank) will create high turbulence near the walls and introduce recirculationg regions near the injector side of the free stream flow. This in theory should improve residence time.

An important parameter to consider during pintle injector design is the blockage ratio parameter, which effectively describes the amount of circumference occupied by the oxidizer slot's frontal area (on the outer surface of the pintle shank), as this area dictates the subsequent area that shear mixing can happen. The determination of the optimal blockage ratio is a highly empirical science as too much blockage ratio can turn the pintle into an impinger rather than a shear injector with a suboptimal amount of slot length for shear to occur. Meanwhile with too little of a blockage ratio, while you may get plenty of slot length to shear the fuel, the fuel may be too far away from the streams for effective shear. Testing and CFD are necessary to figure out these parameters on engine-to-engine basis. Injectors with similar design parameters can potentially be scaled reasonably. The primary slots do the heavy lifting in efficiency while secondary slots may exist to catch any fuel that makes it past the initial shear layer, which explains their relatively smaller length. 

The wall temperature also has a non-trivial effect on pintle efficiency. In terms of injector mixing efficiency, a hotter wall will generally lead to thinner boundary layers inducing higher shear forces at the propellant mixture interface, also promoting accelerated droplet vaporization due to increased local temps. This in theory should help with a more homogenous fuel-oxidizer mixing.